Differences between Python and Java
The following are the major differences of Python and Java.

Java	                                                  Python
Java|	Python
Java is object-oriented programming language. Functional programming features are introduced into Java 8.0 through lambda expressions.|	Python blends the functional programming with object-oriented programming features. Lambdas are already available in Python.
Java language type discipline is static and weak.|	Python type discipline is dynamic and strong.
It is compulsory to declare the datatypes of variables, arrays etc. in Java.|	Type declaration is not required in Python.
Java programs are verbose. It means they contain more number of lines.|	Python programs are concise and compact. A big program can be written using very less number of lines.
In Java, the collection objects like Stack, LinkedList or Vector store only objects but not primitive datatypes like integer numbers.|	Python collection objects like lists and dictionaries can store objects of any type, including numbers and lists.
Memory allocation and deal location is done automatically by JVM (Java Virtual Machine).|	Memory allocation and deal location is done automatically by PVM (Python Virtual Machine).
The variable in for loop does not increment automatically. But in for each loop, it will increment automatically.|	The variable in the for loop increments automatically.
A semicolon is used to terminate the statements and comma is used to separate expressions.|	New line indicates end of the statements and semicolon is used as an expression separator.
Indentation of statements is not necessary in Java.|	Indentation is required to represent a block of statements.
Java has do… while, while, for and for each loops.|	Python has while and for loops.
Java has switch statement or block.|	Python does not have switch statement or block.
Java supports single and multi-dimensional arrays.|	Python supports only single dimensional arrays. To work with multi-dimensional arrays, we should use third party applications like numpy.
The array index should be a positive integer.|	Array index can be positive or negative integer number. Negative index represents locations from the end of the array.
Checking the location outside the allocation of an array is not supported in Java.|	Python performs checking outside an array for all iterations while looping.